Anton Lacson 
5/20/2025
CISC480 
Dr. Jimenez
					Holistic Reflection	
	




	Back in my senior year of high school when I was applying to college, I knew that computer science was what I was going to study in school, and I was very set on that. My inspiration to major in computer science was from my late uncle who worked in tech in the Bay area with SAP and advised me that computer science would be a great major to choose. What convinced me to major in computer science was the fieldÕs versatility. I felt that with the knowledge I will learn with my computer science degree; I will be able to get into a wide range of fields once I am done with undergrad.
 
	Going into my first year of college and studying computer science, I was very worried because I had no programming experience at all. However, talking to Dr. Hardt made me realize that it is totally fine coming in with no programming experience or background and it is very normal. Additionally, he assured me that I will learn a lot throughout the curriculum and will come out knowledgeable at the end. After taking CISC 131: Intro to Programming, where I first learned Python and CISC 230: Object Oriented Deign and Programming, where I first learned Java, my technical and critical skills in computer science started to develop and everything started to go smoothly as I continued through St. ThomasÕs computer science curriculum. 

	After my first two classes in the computer science curriculum, my journey through the curriculum has been formed by strict technical requirements, collaborating with others, and understanding how technology affects the peopleÕs societal norms and wants. Additionally, my journey has been guided by the schoolÕs mission to advance the common good through academic excellence, faith and reason, gratitude, and dignity. Specific examples from my portfolio that best demonstrates my growth is my summer internship experience. During my freshman summer internship with GTA back home on Guam as an IT summer intern, I had the wonderful experience of assisting with updating the companyÕs employee portal using HTML and JavaScript, which enhanced user experience and functionality. What stood out to me during this experience was that I was able to apply the core concepts I learned in my first two computer science classes, which were the core concepts of structure, logic, and how a system responds to user input. These were core skills I was able to learn from these classes that directly translated into helping me build front end components that were responsive and manage the siteÕs core data operations. Overall, this was an experience that was very crucial in boosting my self-assurance. It made me realize that even with the basic knowledge I was developing in computer science through two classes, I was able to contribute to the company in a meaningful and effective way.

	Aside from this great experience I had from my summer internship with GTA during my freshman year summer, I hit a challenge in the fall of my junior year while going through the computer architecture course. Out of all the classes I took in the curriculum, I would say that computer architecture was one of the most difficult yet groundbreaking experiences in my computer science journey. This course gave me information about the internal workings of different computer systems, which include topics such as digital logic, instruction sets assembly language, and ALU and CPU design to name a few. At the beginning of the class, I felt completely overwhelmed by all the material I was learning with the material being abstract, deep, and not like anything I have learned before. However, through all these challenges, it has instilled a lot of growth in me by learning how to approach my studying differently, spending more time in office hours, and collaborating with my peers. Therefore, computer architecture was a challenge that I faced through my computer science journey that helped me grow the most. 

	Throughout my journey, IÕve realized that my most significant technical accomplishments are those that consistent with my personal values of assisting others, advancing equity, constant learning, and having a positive influence. An example that comes to mind to back this up is my current senior capstone project EZDocs, which is a system that we designed to help entry level/intern IT and software development workers create documentation seamlessly with little to no experience in building out documentation. The inspiration from this project came from struggles in my prior internship where I was tasked to put together documentation with no guidance at all. Thus, this experience gave me the motivation to create something that could help others overcome the obstacle with documentation that I faced during my internship. I believe that this is in line with my view that technology should help empower people by making their processes in life easier, especially for those who are new to everything and just starting out. 

	As I get ready to graduate in a week and transition to my full-time job with Crew as a Technical Analyst Associate, I am fully committed to taking everything I learned from my computer science journey with me and staying committed to continuously learning. When I transition into this role, I look forward showcasing my proficiency in python and machine learning while showcasing my soft skills, communication, and leadership ability. As I make my transition, my lifelong goal is not just to prosper in tech but rather make a meaningful contribution that constitutes great change and improvement. I want to use all the critical skills and technical skills I have developed so far in my life and am going to develop to help uplift those around me and solve society-centered problems. 
	
 





